---
layout: post
title: "new post"
description: ""
category: 
tags: [test]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

This Jekyll introduction will outline specifically  what Jekyll is and why you would want to use it.
Directly following the intro we'll learn exactly _how_ Jekyll does what it does.

## Overview

### What is Jekyll?

Jekyll is a parsing engine bundled as a ruby gem used to build static websites from
dynamic components such as templates, partials, liquid code, markdown, etc. Jekyll is known as "a simple, blog aware, static site generator".

### Examples

This website is created with Jekyll. [Other Jekyll websites](https://github.com/mojombo/jekyll/wiki/Sites).



### What does Jekyll Do?

Jekyll is a ruby gem you install on your local system.
Once there you can call `jekyll --server` on a directory and provided that directory
is setup in a way jekyll expects, it will do magic stuff like parse markdown/textile files,
compute categories, tags, permalinks, and construct your pages from layout templates and partials.

Once parsed, Jekyll stores the result in a self-contained static `_site` folder.
The intention here is that you can serve all contents in this folder statically from a plain static web-server.

You can think of Jekyll as a normalish dynamic blog but rather than parsing content, templates, and tags
on each request, Jekyll does this once _beforehand_ and caches the _entire website_ in a folder for serving statically.

### Jekyll is Not Blogging Software

**Jekyll is a parsing engine.**

Jekyll does not come with any content nor does it have any templates or design elements.
This is a common source of confusion when getting started.
Jekyll does not come with anything you actually use or see on your website - you have to make it.

### Why Should I Care?

Jekyll is very minimalistic and very efficient.
The most important thing to realize about Jekyll is that it creates a static representation of your website requiring only a static web-server.
Traditional dynamic blogs like Wordpress require a database and server-side code.
Heavily trafficked dynamic blogs must employ a caching layer that ultimately performs the same job Jekyll sets out to do; serve static content.

Therefore if you like to keep things simple and you prefer the command-line over an admin panel UI then give Jekyll a try.

**Developers like Jekyll because we can write content like we write code:**

- Ability to write content in markdown or textile in your favorite text-editor.
- Ability to write and preview your content via localhost.
- No internet connection required.
- Ability to publish via git.
- Ability to host your blog on a static web-server.
- Ability to host freely on GitHub Pages.
- No database required.

# How Jekyll Works

The following is a complete but concise outline of exactly how Jekyll works.

Be aware that core concepts are introduced in rapid succession without code examples.
This information is not intended to specifically teach you how to do anything, rather it
is intended to give you the _full picture_ relative to what is going on in Jekyll-world.

Learning these core concepts should help you avoid common frustrations and ultimately
help you better understand the code examples contained throughout Jekyll-Bootstrap.


## Initial Setup

After [installing jekyll](/index.html#start-now) you'll need to format your website directory in a way jekyll expects.
Jekyll-bootstrap conveniently provides the base directory format.

### The Jekyll Application Base Format

Jekyll expects your website directory to be laid out like so:

    .
    |-- _config.yml
    |-- _includes
    |-- _layouts
    |   |-- default.html
    |   |-- post.html
    |-- _posts
    |   |-- 2011-10-25-open-source-is-good.markdown
    |   |-- 2011-04-26-hello-world.markdown
    |-- _site
    |-- index.html
    |-- assets
        |-- css
            |-- style.css
        |-- javascripts


- **\_config.yml**
	Stores configuration data.

- **\_includes**
	This folder is for partial views.

- **\_layouts**
	This folder is for the main templates your content will be inserted into.
	You can have different layouts for different pages or page sections.

- **\_posts**
	This folder contains your dynamic content/posts.
	the naming format is required to be `@YEAR-MONTH-DATE-title.MARKUP@`.

- **\_site**
	This is where the generated site will be placed once Jekyll is done transforming it.

- **assets**
	This folder is not part of the standard jekyll structure.
	The assets folder represents _any generic_ folder you happen to create in your root directory.
	Directories and files not properly formatted for jekyll will be left untouched for you to serve normally.

(read more: <https://github.com/mojombo/jekyll/wiki/Usage>)